>> Kyle Simpson: There's one last thing
I wanna walk you through doing, and
that is just one little final piece
of polish on the user experience.
If I come to slash login,
and I log into this
>> Kyle Simpson: Application, if I have
been typing out a really awesome blog
post,
>> Kyle Simpson: And
I've written out this whole long blog
post, and then something happens and
I go offline.
And I go to click this Add Post button,
and
all I get is an error like you're down.
Well then, I'm like shoot,
I gotta save this somewhere because I'm
worried if I go away I'm
gonna lose all this.
So I'm copying this into my own
text editor to try to save it,
and then I'm gonna try to remember to come
back later and post this or whatever.
This is a perfect opportunity where,
again, I'm doing it for blog posting,
but this would be more like for
a comment section on a blog, for example.
It's a perfect opportunity where what
we could be doing is trying to help
out the user.
So what I have in this final revision, and
this is the version of the code
you have in your solution file.
What I have in this final revision is
that under the covers, as I change
the input box and the blog post text,
I'm saving that data to IndexedDB.
So it's being saved in an offline safe
way in the background of this website.
And I can access IndexedDB
from both places.
I can access it from the page,
which is what I'm doing here, and
I can also access it
in the service worker.
So what I'm doing is that if I
have saved this information and
I click Add Post, I can now tell hey,
you're not online.
So I'm gonna give you a friendlier
message that says you seem to be offline,
currently.
Please try posting once
you come back online.
But even if I go away, I go away from
the page or I close the tab entirely,
if I come back to that page,
guess what's still there?
>> Kyle Simpson: My content was
saved in an offline form, and
then restored because this
hasn't been posted yet.
Now, let's say later I get off
the airplane and I'm back online,
and now I can see I'm online,
and I'm like click Add Post.
Well now, I want for
that IndexedDB to get cleared out.
So when I click the Add Post,
once the service worker detects
that it was successfully sent to
the server, the service worker clears
out the IndexedDB because now
we're done with that content.
So I click Add Post.
And now, if I come back to
Add Post it's been cleared out.
>> Kyle Simpson: So just real quickly,
we'll take a look at how that code
is working in our service worker.
Let's look at that side first.
In our service worker, in our router,
>> Kyle Simpson: Down here at the bottom.
Specifically here,
I have some handling to clear
the offline backup of a successful post.
So if the request URL was API Add Post,
and I know that it was successful,
then I'm gonna call this library which
I've loaded in, gives you a promise
interface for IndexedDB, and I'm gonna
delete the post backup that was created.
>> Kyle Simpson: I mean,
I meant to say there's other reasons for
you to wanna access your IndexDB.
You might wanna actually get
that content and send it.
So we talked about,
remember, background sync.
If that API was running here in
the background, and then at some point it
detected that we were online, it could
grab it out of IndexDBand send it off to
the server for me without me even having
to reload the page to put it back in.
And then, of course,
we would wanna delete it.
All right, so
let's look at the Add Post page.
>> Kyle Simpson: Basically,
all I really need to do is listen for
the change event on those
input in text area boxes.
And when I get called, I'm just gonna set
an object in memory that holds
the current value of those things.
So every time those are changed,
I'm gonna save that data into there.
You could actually do it on every key
stroke if you really wanted to be
aggressive about the saving of it.
But here, I'm just doing it whenever you
unfocus from it and it's been changed.
By the way, I exposed the function
in my blog that let's me know from
the Add Post whether I'm online.
It just exposes that Boolean variable,
and that's when I
give you this special message that
says you seem to be offline currently.